Update Methods Section (#30)
greenelab/annorxiver_manuscript: content/03.methods.md

We embedded each query article into the space defined by the word2vec model as described for preprints.
We selected the ten manuscripts that were nearest by Euclidean distance in the embedding space and returned the journal in which they were published.
The number of journals returned via this method could be less than ten as multiple papers in close proximity to query article may belong to the same journal.
Because this approach was based on paper proximity, we could return the articles that led to each journal being returned.
However, journals that publish more papers are more frequently recommended in this framing.

For the journal-centric approach, we identified the ten most similar journals by constructing a journal representation in the same embedding space.
We computed journal centroids as the average embedding of all published papers in the journal.
We then project a query article into the same space and return the ten closest journal centroids by Euclidean distance.
This technique guaranteed that at least ten distinct journals were returned and prevented journals that publish many papers from being heavily overrepresented.

> In both cases, we optimized [WHAT NEEDED TO BE OPTIMIZED? THERE AREN'T A LOT OF FREE PARAMETERS HERE] the approaches by via 10-fold cross validation.

Author: I thought we just set this to 10?

> In both cases, we optimized [WHAT NEEDED TO BE OPTIMIZED? THERE AREN'T A LOT OF FREE PARAMETERS HERE] the approaches by via 10-fold cross validation.

Reviewer: Ack you are correct. Will update to reflect changes.

We then project a query article into the same space and return the ten closest journal centroids by Euclidean distance.
This technique guaranteed that at least ten distinct journals were returned and prevented journals that publish many papers from being heavily overrepresented.

In both cases, we optimized [WHAT NEEDED TO BE OPTIMIZED? THERE AREN'T A LOT OF FREE PARAMETERS HERE] the approaches by via 10-fold cross validation.
We evaluated performance of both classifiers on our gold standard test set of published preprints.

We developed a web application to make this prediction method available for all _bioRxiv_ preprints.
Our web application downloads a pdf version of a preprint hosted on the  _bioRxiv_ or _medRxiv_ server.
We use pdfminer [@url:https://pdfminersix.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html] to extract text from the downloaded pdf.
The extracted text is then fed into our word2vec model to construct a document embedding representation.
We pass this representation onto our journal venue classifiers to recommend journals based on the ten closest neighbors of individual papers as well as journal centroids.

> [THIS USES KD TREES IN SKLEARN TO MAKE IT SCALABLE AND EFFICIENT AND I THINK THEY HAD TO BE SHARDED TO WORK GIVEN THE AVAILABLE RAM THOUGH THAT MIGHT NOT BE TRUE ANYMORE - GET THE DETAILS FROM DONGBO :) ]

Reviewer 2: ```
We use k-d Trees in sklearn to search the papers. In order to make it more memory efficient, the k-d trees were sharded into four pieces and constructed beforehand. They are loaded into memory directly when the web server starts.
```
Do you need more details?

We computed journal centroids as the average embedding of all published papers in the journal.
We then project a query article into the same space and return the ten closest journal centroids by Euclidean distance.
This technique guaranteed that at least ten distinct journals were returned and prevented journals that publish many papers from being heavily overrepresented.

In both cases, we set the number of neighbors for each model to be 10 and then evaluated both models via 10-fold cross validation.
We evaluated performance of both classifiers on our gold standard test set of published preprints.

### Web Application for Discovering Similar Preprints and Journals

We developed a web application that identifies similar papers and journals for any _bioRxiv_ and _medRxiv_ preprint and that places the preprint into the overall document landscape.
Our web application downloads a pdf version of a preprint hosted on the  _bioRxiv_ or _medRxiv_ server.
We use pdfminer [@url:https://pdfminersix.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html] to extract text from the downloaded pdf.
The extracted text is then fed into our word2vec model to construct a document embedding representation.

> We pass this representation onto our journal venue classifiers to recommend journals based on the ten closest neighbors of individual papers as well as journal centroids.
> [THIS USES KD TREES IN SKLEARN TO MAKE IT SCALABLE AND EFFICIENT AND I THINK THEY HAD TO BE SHARDED TO WORK GIVEN THE AVAILABLE RAM THOUGH THAT MIGHT NOT BE TRUE ANYMORE - GET THE DETAILS FROM DONGBO :) ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We pass this representation onto our journal venue classifiers to identify journals based on the ten closest neighbors of individual papers as well as journal centroids.
Our classifiers use k-d trees in sklearn to efficiently search for similar papers and journals. 
We sharded the k-d trees into four separate pieces to make our models more memory efficient. 
We load each piece directly into memory as soon as the web server starts.
```

Accompanying these recommendations, we also provide a neural network derived visualization of our training set and the article's position within it.
We used SAUCIE [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.04.975177], an autoencoder designed to cluster single cell RNA-seq data, to build a two-dimensional embedding space that could be applied to newly generated preprints without retraining, a limitation of other approaches that we explored for visualizing entities expected to lie on a nonlinear manifold.

> We trained this model [ON WORD EMBEDDINGS DIRECTLY OR PCS AND ALSO WHAT DOCUMENTS?] using a hidden size of 2, a learning rate of 0.001, lambda_b of 0, lambda_c of 0.001, and lambda_d of 0.001 for 2000 iterations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We trained this model on document embeddings of PMCOA articles that did not contain a matching preprint version.
We used the following parameters to train the model: a hidden size of 2, a learning rate of 0.001, lambda_b of 0, lambda_c of 0.001, and lambda_d of 0.001 for 2000 iterations.
```

## Materials and Methods

### Corpora Examined

#### BioRxiv Corpus

BioRxiv [@doi:10.1101/833400] is a repository for life sciences preprints.
We downloaded an xml snapshot of this repository on February 3, 2020 from bioRxiv's Amazon S3 bucket [@url:https://www.biorxiv.org/tdm].
This snapshot contained the full text and image content of 98,023 preprints.
Preprints on bioRxiv are versioned, and in our snapshot 26,905 out of 98,023 contained more than one version.
When preprints had multiple versions, we used the latest one unless otherwise noted.
Authors submitting preprints to _bioRxiv_ select one of twenty-nine different categories.
Researchers also select an article type, which can be a new result, confirmatory finding, or contradictory finding.
Some preprints in this snapshot were withdrawn from bioRxiv: when this happens their content is replaced with the reason for withdrawal. 
As there were very few withdrawn preprints, we did not treat these as a special case.

> #### PubMed Central Open Access Corpus

Author: ```suggestion

#### PubMed Central Open Access Corpus
```

### Constructing a Document Representation for Life Sciences Text

We sought to build a model that would capture the linguistic similarity of articles.
Word2vec is a suite of neural networks designed to model linguistic features of words based on their appearance in text.
These models are trained to either predict a word based on its sentence context as a continuous bag of words (CBOW) or predict the context based on a given word in a skipgram model [@arxiv:1301.3781].
Through these prediction tasks the networks learn latent features that can be used for downstream tasks such as identifying similar words.
We used gensim [@raw:rehurek_lrec] (version 3.8.1) to train a word2vec continuous bag of words (CBOW) [@arxiv:1301.3781] model over the _bioRxiv_ corpus.
Our neural network architecture had 300 hidden nodes, and we trained this model for 20 epochs.
We set a fixed random seed and used gensim's default settings for all other hyperparameters.
Following training, we generated a document vector for every article within _bioRxiv_ and PubMed Central.
We calculated the document vector by taking the average of every token present within a given article [@arxiv:1405.4053].

> Words absent from the word2vec model were ignored.

Author: ```suggestion
Words absent from the word2vec model were ignored.

```
